deployments/k3d/README.md, before:

# K3d Shim Deployment
This example shows how one could deploy the shims and use them locally using k3d. The example consists of the following files.

```
$ tree .
.
├── config.toml.tmpl
├── Dockerfile
├── Makefile
└── README.md
```

- **config.toml.tmpl:** is the containerd config template that k3d uses to generate the containerd config. We have added a line to the template to register the shims, so that containerd will understand how to run our Wasm pod's runtime class.
- **Dockerfile:** is the specification for the image run as a Kubernetes node within the k3d cluster. We add the shims to the `/bin` directory and add the containerd config in the k3s prescribed directory.
- **Makefile**: has some helpful tasks to aid in execution.

## How to use this example
- `make install-k3d`: will install k3d
- `make up`: will build the shims and the k3d kubernetes cluster
- `make deploy`: will deploy our runtime classes, services, and deployments of Wasm workloads. You can find these manifests in [the workloads directory](../workloads).
- `make test`: will make a curl call to our deployed service
- `make clean`: will tear down the cluster

Commit message:

document how to quickly get started with a local cluster

deployments/k3d/README.md, after:

# K3d Shim Deployment
This example shows how one could deploy the shims and use them locally using k3d. The example consists of the following files.

```
$ tree .
.
├── config.toml.tmpl
├── Dockerfile
├── Makefile
└── README.md
```

- **config.toml.tmpl:** is the containerd config template that k3d uses to generate the containerd config. We have added a line to the template to register the shims, so that containerd will understand how to run our Wasm pod's runtime class.
- **Dockerfile:** is the specification for the image run as a Kubernetes node within the k3d cluster. We add the shims to the `/bin` directory and add the containerd config in the k3s prescribed directory.
- **Makefile**: has some helpful tasks to aid in execution.

## How to run the example
The shell script below will create a k3d cluster locally with the Wasm shims installed and containerd configured. The script then applies the runtime classes for the shims and an example service and deployment. Finally, we curl the `/hello` and receive a response from the example workload.
```shell
k3d cluster create wasm-cluster --image ghcr.io/deislabs/containerd-wasm-shims/examples/k3d:latest --api-port 6550 -p "8081:80@loadbalancer"
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/deislabs/containerd-wasm-shims/releases/download/v0.2.0/runtime.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/deislabs/containerd-wasm-shims/releases/download/v0.2.0/workload.yaml
curl -v http://0.0.0.0:8081/hello
```

To tear down the cluster, run the following.
```shell
k3d cluster delete wasm-cluster
```

## How build get started from source
- `make install-k3d`: will install k3d
- `make up`: will build the shims and the k3d kubernetes cluster
- `make deploy`: will deploy our runtime classes, services, and deployments of Wasm workloads. You can find these manifests in [the workloads directory](../workloads).
- `make test`: will make a curl call to our deployed service
- `make clean`: will tear down the cluster
